1.1. Evolutionary context
At the molecular level, diverse biomolecules have fixed stoichiometric ratios. This represents a constrain per se for organisms because elements are acquired in the form of molecules. Being out of equilibrium systems, cells put energy into the maintenance of chemical compositions often different from that of their environment because such compositions are the ones allowing survival and reproduction. The major biomolecule classes also represent constraints. Proteins, lipids, carbohydrates and nucleic acids are classes of biomolecules that inevitably compose organisms. These molecules hold diverse functions and are components of structure engaged in survival and reproduction. The core of these molecules is carbon, followed by hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur. Besides these biomolecules, ions and diverse small metabolites are also found to be essential to all life. Reproduction implies that a source must be found for all elements constituting organisms, plus a source of energy (electrons) to keep the metabolism working. 
The diverse aspects of cells that appeared through evolution, as well as the appearance of multicellularity, gave more or less variability in the chemical composition indirectly selected by the evolution of life. By saying this, we state that not all chemical compositions hence stoichiometry, are viable, nor are all evolutively fit. 
Fitness of whole individuals are not directly linked to organism chemical composition, as an excess of intake of certain nutrients can be beneficial or detrimental (growth vs excess reserves, Raubenheimer, Simpson & Mayntz 2009, 10.1111/j.1365-2435.2009.01522.x). Moreover, nutrient specialist or generalist have emerged through evolution, with species being more or less sensitive to changes in their diet composition 

1.1 A chemical view of individuals

In ecology and evolution, individuals are the units of natural selection. They occupy a peculiar place in the scales of organization of biology for this reason. A lot of the constrain evoked in this paper occur at the individual level, and can have effects on higher scale of organization. However, truly emergent constraints are hard to find a these scale and we shall therefore develop in detail the constrain put at the level of individuals.

 From a chemical standpoint, individuals can be classified thopurhg the lens of structuring life history traits. A first to consider is whether the organism is unicellular or pluricellular, for pluricellular forms of life might be prone to development (cellular growth and cellular differentiation), whereas unicellular forms of life are only going through growth. This means that pluricellular organisms can, throughout their development vary in chemical composition because the relative amounts of differentiated tissue varies. On the contrary, unicellular only have one cell type and therefore are more constrain to a chemical composition through their growth, even if during cell cycle, it might change.
COMPARE THE STOICHIOMETRIC RATIOS OF PLANTS, ANIMALS, FUNGI VS BACTERIA

1.2. The stoichiometric space of organisms

Different species have different ways of acquiring these numerous elements and energy and in various forms. Organisms lie on a spectrum from fully independent sources and sink for each element to a unique source and a unique sink for all elements and for energy.
Let us consider one organism and its resource, with no means of organism output. Resources are, from the point of view of the organism, expressed as a flux.
If we add to this model output, and if the output chemical composition is equal to the input chemical composition, then the organism also is constrained to the resource chemical composition.
If the output chemical composition is different from the input chemical composition, then the organism has a chemical composition different from the resource.

This organism's chemical composition is constrained to one of its resources. If the input chemical composition can vary in time, the chemical composition of the organism is the time-average of input compositions. In the latter case already, the organism's chemical composition can differ from each of the resources that it can consume.





Here the molecular scale is important because the molecular formula of input and output constrain the chemical composition. For example plants can acquire energy, carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus quite independently from each other, because overall, carbon comes from CO2, nitrogen from NO3, and phosphorus from PO4. This does not hold for animals, which acquire both energy and all the elements besides O from their food. On the side of outputs, however, animals are capable, as plants of differential waste withdrawal of the various elements. Therefore, maintaining a given chemical composition might be done by adjusting the various entries in plants and by a combination of varying the nature of the food items in animals and differential excretion in animals. This “degree of freedom” matter in the acquisition and withdrawal of the various elements is important to understand the constraints put on individuals and is the result of the complexity and topology of metabolism, as well as the structure of multicellular organisms.

1.3. 

At the level of individuals, the chemical and energy fluxes are intake, growth and maintenance, as well as waste production. Reproduction is special to individuals because in terms of energy and chemical fluxes strictly, it is a loss to the individual. Various constraints are put on these fluxes. Homeostasis is often referred to as the structuring factor of these fluxes at the individual level. Here, we detail how individuals cope with this constraint.

Organisms need to acquire both structures and energy. At least some of the organism’s structure is turning over, replacing wastes and oxidized material with new ones, and therefore some of the acquired resource is devoted to structure (Zanden 2015 10.1371/journal.pone.0116182). Structural resource, which is linked to specific functions, generally is more constrained to some chemical composition than energetical resources, which can be extracted from diverse substrates, hence of various chemical compositions (oxidation of organic or inorganic compounds, light). Therefore, depending on the proportion devoted to structure or energy, the constraint put on the chemical composition of the resource is not the same. If most of the resource is devoted to structure, the constraint is strong, but if most part is devoted to energetic processes, the constraint is looser. 

Moreover, the proportion of resources devoted to structure can change over time at the individual level due to ontogeny, or in response to environmental conditions by adaptation in growth and maintenance processes (Glazier 2014 10.1111/brv.12115). Growth rate and efficiency are generally plastic in a given individual, meaning that an individual is not intrinsically forced to grow at a certain rate or at a certain efficiency or to devote a given proportion of its intake resource to either maintenance or structure processes.  This is a way of relaxing the constraints of these fluxes. From one individual to another, this plasticity can vary. When resources are lacking (oligotrophy), growth can adapt by slowing down adaptively (Loewith 2011, 10.1534/genetics.111.133363), and maintenance costs can drop (Buggren 2020 10.3389/fphys.2019.01634, Auer et al. 2015, 10.1111/1365-2656.12384). This can give rise to quiescence and cryptobiosis (O’Farrell 2011, 10.1098/rstb.2011.0079, Withers and Coopers 2010, 10.1007/978-3-642-02421-4_1). We can also consider the existence of reserves that might stock various nutrients instead of voiding them. If a single nutrient is lacking, there exist adaptive processes targeting precisely the assimilation of the lacking nutrient (Boer et al., 2003, 10.1074/jbc.M209759200 ) or reducing the requirement for it (Boer et al., 2010, 10.1091/mbc.E09-07-0597).

To cope with single resource mismatches triggering homeostasis issues, a first possibility is that individuals would react by selecting appropriately their diet (Raubenheimer and Simpson 1993, 10.1006/anbe.1993.1114)

These considerations indicate that stoichiometric mismatches don’t always arise as soon as there are differences between an organism and its resource composition. This constraint is strong only if the organism's homeostasis is strong and if the resource has to be devoted to the new structure, hence to growth, because homeostasis does not account for mass acquired for strictly energetical processes. Moreover, changes in the resource composition should not affect the proportion of resources devoted to this new structure (Fierer et al. 2007, 10.1890/05-1839). Homeostasis also ignores the existence of reserve compartments that might grow/degrow depending on the conditions. In this case only, building new structure requires a material with the exact same composition as the organism. In case this resource of particular composition isn’t present in the environment, a stoichiometric mismatch arises, with two possible ways of solving it: either by modifying the nutrient use efficiency or by performing compensatory feeding to acquire the lacking nutrient (Jochum et al. 2017 10.1086/691790)

These mismatches are not always obvious in nature because evolution has shaped the relationships between prefered resource chemical composition, organism chemical composition, trophic type and physiology (Karasov et al. 2011, 10.1146/annurev-physiol-012110-142152). Therefore the negative effects of these constraints on fitness are rare. Moreover, ontogeny and growth are also adapted to diet (e.g. in mammals Price et al. 2015, 10.1111/bij.12495). Therefore, organisms occupy non-random places in the space of possible resource-consumer stoichiometries, which is also the case for other constraints and trade-offs (Garland 2022 10.1086/717897).

A more holistic view consists of phrasing the constraints dynamically in time, in terms of fluxes and rates, instead of fixed chemical composition only. At the individual level, resources in a given place and time accessible to a given organism only span a certain range of chemical composition. This resource can not be acquired at an infinite rate. For the individual, the constraint consists of requirements (energy, nutrients, electrons amount required for a given period of time, hence expressed as J or kg / second). The requirements depend on the structural and maintenance process rates.  As said before, these rates are individually plastic.  Given growth and a maintenance rate, we can infer the requirements. These requirements are met as long as the intake/uptake equals the requirements. This intake/uptake is the combination of the rate of acquisition of the resource and its chemical composition. A whole span of combinations of acquisition rate and resource chemical composition is able to meet the requirements.  Indeed, acquiring 50 g of carbon every day is equivalent in terms of requirements to acquiring 100 grams of carbon every two days. 

Therefore, for a given energetic/mass requirement level, if the chemical composition of a resource is constrained by e.g. environment or physiology, therefore, the rate of acquisition is also constrained to a certain value to meet the requirements. If the constraints on the acquisition rate are strong, like in the case of filter feeding, the one on the chemical composition is also strong to meet the requirements. Still at fixed requirements, if the constraints on the acquisition rate are weak, the chemical composition of resource is also freer, and vice-versa: various combinations of chemical combination and acquisition rates are possible, provided they meet the requirements, which is the case for omnivorous species. This interaction between nutrient constraints en energetical maximization was first shown to trigger partial preferences in consumers (Pulliam 1975, 10.2307/2459868) and later to partly determine functional responses (Garay et al. 2012, 10.1016/j.jtbi.2012.06.021, Hengeveld et al. 2009, 10.1086/598500).  But requirements, the rates at which maintenance and structure function, are also plastic, and often on the same timescale as the acquisition rate might vary. A way of adapting to low resource periods might be to lower those rates hence lowering the need for resources. As a result, the intensity of the constraint put on the resource's chemical composition might vary, as a result of plasticity in requirements, acquisition rates and chemical composition of the resource.

The stoichiometric constraint of homeostasis is the need to maintain a given chemical composition or stoichiometry (Kato 2010 10.1111/j.1600-0706.2009.18545.x). In autotrophs, homeostasis is generally thought to be weak compared to heterotrophs in which it is stronger. Indeed, empirically, the variation in carbon-to-nutrient ratio has been found to be more variable in the plant than in animals (Sterner and Elser 2002 10.1515/9781400885695). Plant cells can contain large vacuoles which isolate harmful compounds and waste products from the rest of the cell. It also contains a reserve of water which mechanically structures the plant. Moreover, in multicellular plants, a significant part of the tissues can be dead, with a chemical composition rather independent from metabolism. These factors allow plants to vary widely in their chemical composition. Concerning consumers, studies demonstrating important variations of consumer (hence animals) elemental content (Halvorson et al. 2019 10.1007/s00442-019-04409-w) are more and more frequent. In order to respect homeostasis, resource acquisition is constrained by some rules, and we shall review in which conditions they apply. 
d